Wrapped Filecoin documentation update (#1128)
filecoin-project/filecoin-docs: docs/about-filecoin/wrapped-filecoin.md

---
title: Wrapped Filecoin
description: Wrapped tokens allow tokens from one blockchain to be used natively on another chain. 
---

# Wrapped Filecoin

## What is a wrapped token?

Wrapped tokens allow tokens from one blockchain to be used natively on another chain. The wrapping process usually involves locking the original tokens in a smart contract, which then mints an equivalent amount of wrapped tokens on another blockchain. 

Users can transact confidently because the wrapped token value is preserved by a smart contract that backs each token one-to-one with the underlying assets. This gives users greater flexibility — such as the ability to write smart contracts with assets across multiple networks without waiting for both chains to update, to create greater liquidity for decentralized finance, or to optimize block confirmation times or gas fees by choosing different networks.

> ::: callout
> Although Filecoin tokens (FIL) cannot be directly used on Ethereum (ETH) or other networks due to different standards, **wrapped FIL** offer the ability to use FIL tokens 1:1 within other blockchain networks including Ethereum, Polygon, Solana, Celo, and more.
> :::
> 
> ## Where can I use wrapped FIL?
> 
> Wrapped FIL is available in the following networks:

Author: ```suggestion

Although Filecoin tokens (FIL) cannot be directly used on Ethereum (ETH) or other networks due to different standards, **wrapped FIL** offer the ability to use FIL tokens 1:1 within other blockchain networks including Ethereum, Polygon, Solana, Celo, and more.

## Where can I use wrapped FIL?

Wrapped FIL is available in the following networks:
```

Lets just remove the callout then to keep the original structure of the post

- Ethereum (renFIL, wFIL)
- Binance Smart Chain (renFIL, BFIL)
- Fantom (renFIL)
- Polygon (renFIL)
- Avalanche (renFIL)
- Solana (renFIL)
- Arbitrum (renFIL)
- Celo (wFIL)
- STACKS (coming soon wFIL)
- KADENA (coming soon wFIL)
- etc.

## Custodial or non-custodial wrapping solution?

- **Non-custodial designs** (renFIL, vFIL) are governed only by on-chain, immutable smart contracts. No single or collective entity has a master key that could force trades, transactions, or other operations to follow one direction or the other.

> - **Custodial designs** (wFIL, BFIL, eFIL, HFIL) are managed by a single third party. They may have services always have a counter-party risk from their operator but could have some other advantages like insurance, guaranteed backing, support, etc.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Custodial designs** (wFIL, BFIL, eFIL, HFIL) are managed by a single third party. Centralized services always have a counter-party risk from their operator but could provide other advantages like insurance, guaranteed backing, support, etc.
```

I thought, I edited this part in the submitted version.

> - **Custodial designs** (wFIL, BFIL, eFIL, HFIL) are managed by a single third party. They may have services always have a counter-party risk from their operator but could have some other advantages like insurance, guaranteed backing, support, etc.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Custodial designs** (wFIL, BFIL, eFIL, HFIL) are managed by a single third party. They may have services always have a counter-party risk from their operator but could have some other advantages like insurance, guaranteed backing and support.
```

> - **Custodial designs** (wFIL, BFIL, eFIL, HFIL) are managed by a single third party. They may have services always have a counter-party risk from their operator but could have some other advantages like insurance, guaranteed backing, support, etc.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Custodial designs** (wFIL, BFIL, eFIL, HFIL) are managed by a single third party. Centralized services always have a counter-party risk from their operator but could provide other advantages like insurance, guaranteed backing and support.
```
Incorporating next comment

> ## Wrapping your FIL process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to wrap your FIL
```

Author: ```suggestion
## How to wrap your FIL?
```

Sounds good to me. 
@mishmosh what do you think?

There are several web-based applications for token wrapping. Here is an overview of the steps:

1. **Choose your wrapped FIL type.** Depending on the chain where you want to use your wrapped FIL, different types are available.
2. **Open the web app and connect your wallet.** Most apps require a web or mobile wallet.
3. **Choose the amount.** Double-check the fee structure, which may vary by network and application.
4. **Click to mint.** You may need to wait several minutes for the target network to confirm the transaction.

> For example, here’s how it works in RenBridge, a decentralized application (dApp) that allows users to mint real FIL (as well as BTC, ZEC, and more) on Ethereum as an ERC20 token (renFIL):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here’s how it works in RenBridge, a decentralized application (dApp) that allows users to mint real FIL on Ethereum as an ERC20 token:
```

Author: ```suggestion
Here’s how it works in RenBridge, a decentralized application (dApp) that allows users to mint real FIL into renFIL on Ethereum and other networks:
```

That looks better to me.

> For example, here’s how it works in RenBridge, a decentralized application (dApp) that allows users to mint real FIL (as well as BTC, ZEC, and more) on Ethereum as an ERC20 token (renFIL):

Author: RenBridge was one of the most straightforward tools to use with the most target networks available. We thought it was important to showcase how easy wrapping could be on one of the examples with the visual explanations.

> For example, here’s how it works in RenBridge, a decentralized application (dApp) that allows users to mint real FIL (as well as BTC, ZEC, and more) on Ethereum as an ERC20 token (renFIL):

Reviewer: That's fair, thanks for clarifying!

        <td>renFIL</td>
        <td>renBridge</td>
        <td>Decentralized</td>
        <td>Decentralized</td>
        <td>Etherium, Binance, Polygon</td>
        <td>https://bridge.renproject.io/mint</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>wFIL</td>
        <td>WRAPPED</td>
        <td>Centralized</td>
        <td>Anchorage</td>
        <td>Etherium</td>
        <td>https://www.wrapped.com/</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>BFIL</td>
        <td>Binance</td>
        <td>Centralized</td>
        <td>Binance</td>
        <td>Etherium via Binance Token Canal </td>
        <td>https://www.binance.com/</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>vFIL</td>
        <td>Venus</td>
        <td>Decentralized</td>
        <td>Decentralized</td>
        <td>Binance Smart Chain </td>
        <td>https://www.venus.io/</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>eFIL</td>
        <td>Gemini</td>
        <td>Decentralized</td>
        <td>Gemini</td>
        <td>Etherium </td>
        <td>https://www.gemini.com/</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>HFIL</td>
        <td>Huobi</td>
        <td>Decentralized</td>
        <td>Huobi</td>
        <td>Etherium</td>
        <td>https://www.huobi.com</td>
    </tr>

> </table>

Reviewer: Tables should follow the markdown syntax: https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#tables

Author: I actually used the same table format as in https://github.com/filecoin-project/filecoin-docs/blob/master/docs/about-filecoin/filecoin-compared-to.md, just updated it to my needs. Will shortly update it to the markdown syntax

Author: ```suggestion
| **Name** | **Project** | **Infrastructure** | **Custodian** | **Main Blockchain**              | **Link**                            |
|----------|-------------|--------------------|---------------|----------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| renFIL   | renBridge   | Decentralized      | Decentralized | Etherium, Binance, Polygon       | https://bridge\.renproject\.io/mint |
| wFIL     | WRAPPED     | Centralized        | Anchorage     | Etherium                         | https://www\.wrapped\.com/          |
| BFIL     | Binance     | Centralized        | Binance       | Etherium via Binance Token Canal | https://www\.binance\.com/          |
| vFIL     | Venus       | Decentralized      | Decentralized | Binance Smart Chain              | https://www\.venus\.io/             |
| eFIL     | Gemini      | Decentralized      | Gemini        | Etherium                         | https://www\.gemini\.com/           |
| HFIL     | Huobi       | Decentralized      | Huobi         | Etherium                         | https://www\.huobi\.com             |
```

This works better?

---
title: Wrapped Filecoin
description: Wrapped tokens allow tokens from one blockchain to be used natively on another chain. 
---

> # Wrapped Filecoin
> 
> ## What is a wrapped token?
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Wrapped Filecoin

```
